Hey there.
Welcome to the video
on advanced data type.
To be honest, I don't want to
make this video yet because this
is too early for you just
getting started with Python now,
these advanced data type do
exist, but they don't exist in
Python itself.
You have to bring in code that
is written by somebody else.
That means we want to bring in some
third party modules into our code.
The module is just a fancy name.
You are bringing somebody
else's code in our computer
or in our program rather.
And you shouldn't be watching
this video to be honest.
But still, I don't want to keep
this knowledge just with me, I
want to share it with you as well
so that maybe later on, probably
after having six month into the
Python experience, you want to
have a taste of it, you at least
get the idea of what I'm talking
about.
So I will be just showing you briefly
of some of the code and then
we will not discuss them too much.
But still you will have an idea
that okay, this, these things
do exist and I probably
can work on them on someday.
That's the whole goal, that's
the whole idea about them.
So first of all let me just
get this, that what are
the advanced data types that are
available for us in this?
So there are a lot of them.
First of all is date time.
Yes, it includes date and time
both at the same time.
But there is a separate one
known as just for time.
There's also a data type known
as calendar and this is
little bit strange calendar.
Hope I wrote it correct.
But, but yes these data type do exist
and they don't are not default,
they are not being used that much.
But you can actually manipulate
date, you can manipulate date time,
you can manipulate time and you
can manipulate calendar as well.
There's also a package which
actually can works with
something known as time delta.
What is this time delta?
Maybe you want to discuss some
duration duration between
when order was fetched and the order
was delivered to the user.
Or maybe just how much time it
took for your program to run.
There are a lot of deltas.
Deltas simply means difference
between the two things.
So yes, you can work with time deltas
as well and there are some
of the utilities that you bring in.
For example there is one
utility known as arrow.
Yes we import this so import arrow.
There is another one which
is known as date util.
We can actually work
with them and go with this.
I will just show you briefly
a little bit idea of how
the arrow or the date util works.
I think we should separate
this out, otherwise
it can be a point of confusion.
So arrow is one separate one
and another one is date util.
So make sure you remember
these are not the core python.
It's kind of a core Python now,
but you have to import them and
whatever the code we have written
so far, we don't have any import
statement because we don't have
the knowledge of how the import
works.
So I'll just go ahead
and briefly show you.
It was not supposed to be a part
of the chapters, but still, just to
make sure that you understand that,
yeah, a lot of things can be done.
So the step one is go ahead and
import arrow Arrow and once you've
imported the arrow, now you can
actually do a lot of things and
please don't suggest me the things
because most of the time you don't
do a good job.
So arrow, as soon as you put
this, you have a lot of things.
I hope the suggestion will be there.
But there is one thing that you
can use UTC now it gives you a UTC
time and you can store that and can
work with a lot of things.
Maybe you want to store that like,
brewing, brewing, underscore time.
That is your time.
And maybe you want to convert
this time later on so you
have the option of that.
Hey, I have this brewing time
and now I want to convert it into
some another time zone, so you
can just mention it like this.
And maybe I want to convert it into
Europe, slash, maybe roam.
If you know any other time
zone, go ahead and fill that.
So it just converts
it into time zone.
Not only that, we have a lot
more things available to us
in the world of data type.
This is just one time is very
common and most easy one.
But there is something known as
whole thing available to us.
This is mostly advanced data
type known as collections.
Yeah, collection is a big
thing in the python.
If I'll just show you directly.
I don't think so, I can actually show
you here, I have to search it again.
Collections, Python.
If I just search for it.
There we go.
Official documentation.
So we have these things available.
We have named Tuple.
We don't have it, but we
can actually bring it up.
We have named Tuple, we have deck.
Yes, this is called as DEC, not DQ.
I'm 100% sure about it.
We have chainmap, we have counter, we
have ordered dictionary, we have
default dictionary, user dictionary.
There's a lot of them and you
can use any one of them.
But there is a way how you
actually use Them right now we
don't have the capacity to use
it but still I'll show you.
Usually I keep all of my imports
above but for this just
example I'll make an exception.
So from collections you can
actually import whatever you like.
Probably you like.
Maybe you want to bring
the named tuple and want
to see how that works.
Now this will just give
you additional data type.
You have to bring it at the very
top, otherwise you cannot use it.
We can use strings, we can use
dictionary, no import was required
but for this it is required.
So for example maybe you
are bringing chai profiles.
Should I use it like this?
Chai profile it is good Chai
profile and what we are going to
do is in the chai profile we'll
use the named tuple and then we
can actually use this named tuple
just like this.
So what difference does it make?
Now since my tuple is going
to be referred by a name, I can
provide a name like Chai profile.
This will be the name of my tuple,
not the variable and I think we
should keep it just like that.
And then I can have my tuple
and the way how
you do it is iteratable.
That means an array or
a list just like this.
So we'll have a flavor, what else?
We can have aroma, what else?
Color maybe all the things
and this is how you do it.
Now you just print
the profile of this.
So a lot of things can be done.
But yes again each of them are built
on top of your default things.
Like this is a string we have studied
about them, this is a list,
they are built on top of that.
What nametuple does is it
brings it up all together.
That's all it does.
Now usage and everything is
very use case sensitive.
You have a special case
where you want to use them.
Forcing them right now
to learn is not a good idea.
So that is why I say this is
just a bonus extra lecture.
We have more data types
in available in Python and surely
there is no end of it.
But right now is not the good time.
We will surely cover them
up and later on we'll discuss them.
And if I forget, don't forget
to tweet me about it that hey, we
discussed something about it.
I would love to enhance
this course as one stop solution
to learn Python.
So don't hesitate to tweet this out.
But again right now this is more than
enough data type knowledge for you.
Now we need to learn how we can
manipulate the data data storage.
We are all clear now what kind of
processing we can do with the data.
That is our goal.
Now, let's go ahead, move
on to the next video and talk
about that in there.
And again, don't forget to review us.